Welcome back for another 5 minute movie recap.
Today, I'm going to give you an overview of the
2018 British-American science fiction
horror film called 'Annihilation'.
There will be Spoilers ahead,
so please proceed with caution.
After returning as the lone survivor of
an expedition to an abnormal zone known
as the 'Shimmer,' cellular biology professor and
Army veteran Lena is questioned in a top-secret
US government facility code-named Area X. The
Shimmer formed three years ago from a meteoroid
that crashed inside a lighthouse on the southern
United States' coast, and it is steadily spreading
its limits. Kane, Lena's Green Beret spouse, was
a member of a previous expedition and returns at
their house after a year, unable to explain where
he was or how he returned. As his health worsens,
Lena summons an ambulance, but it is stopped by
security personnel and brought to Area X. Dr.
Ventress, a government psychologist, shows
Lena the Shimmer while Kane is in intensive
care and says that numerous exploratory teams
have entered, but only Kane has ever returned.
Ventress is getting ready to lead a new research
expedition into the Shimmer, with Lena, physicist
Josie Radek, geomorphologist Cassie 'Cass'
Sheppard, and paramedic Anya Thorensen as members.
When the party enters the Shimmer, Lena gets
a vision of a previous romance she had with
a coworker, which took place before Kane's
disappearance. When the party awakens in their
tents, they discover that their communications
and navigation devices have stopped working,
that three to four days have passed, and that
they have no recollection of what happened after
they entered the Shimmer. They come across
mutant flora and animals, and Josie survives
an attack by an albino alligator with rows of
shark-like fangs. They discover a video message
from Kane's expedition at an abandoned military
camp, showing him doing field surgery on another
soldier's abdomen only to see his intestines
moving on their own. Given the way the organs
are distributed, the soldier's corpse appears to
have evolved into an enlarged colony of lichens.
A mutant bear attacks the base at night, dragging
Cass away, and Lena later discovers her mangled
corpse. They come discover plants that have
taken on human-like shapes as they arrive at an
abandoned town. According to Josie, the Shimmer
acts as a prism for all kinds of information,
including DNA, distorting and
changing anything inside its bounds,
and the group is already starting to change.
After witnessing her fingerprint patterns alter,
Anya becomes paranoid and ties up the
others, accusing Lena of murdering Cass.
The bear entices Anya away by imitating Cass's
call for assistance, then enters the room with
the ladies and threatens them. Anya, who is
hurt, arrives and shoots the bear, who kills
her by ripping her mouth off. Josie manages to
free herself and kills the bear with a shotgun.
Ventress, who is dying of cancer and is
desperate to discover the truth about the
Shimmer before she dies, sets out on her own for
the lighthouse. The Shimmer's 'refractions' are
already within Josie and Lena's bodies;
Josie expresses her belief that Cass's
dying consciousness was 'refracted' into the
bear and walks off, as her body turns into
plant stuff. Lena arrives at the lighthouse to
find Kane's corpses and another video message,
assuming he accepted the suicide expedition
into the Shimmer because she cheated on him.
Kane instructs the man filming to find Lena
and then kills himself with an incendiary bomb;
the other man is shown to be an extraterrestrial
doppelgänger who took Kane's place.
Ventress says that the powers underlying the
Shimmer will expand to encompass all as Lena
sinks through the hole left by the meteor. She
then disintegrates into a luminous nebulous
structure that takes a drop of blood from
Lena's face, transforming into a humanoid
creature that moves like Lena. In order to get
away from the creature that is mirroring her,
Lena throws one of her phosphorous grenades at it,
and it changes into an exact replica of herself.
Lena detonates the grenade and runs away from the
lighthouse, but the monster does not pursue her.
The monster, which has been set fire by
the explosion, tenderly caresses Kane's
charred body before crawling back into the
hole and burning the lighthouse's core.
As the Shimmer's constructions crumble
and fade away, Lena stands there watching.
Lena's interrogator at the institution claims
that the Shimmer would have destroyed everything
in the end. Lena disagrees, claiming that
the Shimmer was genuinely attempting to build
something (presumably new life forms through the
information prism). When she takes a drink from a
glass of water, the droplets on the edge of the
glass travel sideways and mix with one other.
After the Shimmer faded, the interviewer
reports that Kane has physically healed
and is once again lucid. Lena pays him a visit
and inquires whether he is Kane; he responds,
'I don't believe so.' He inquires whether
she is Lena, but she remains silent.
Kane wraps his arms around
Lena, and their eyes shimmer.
If you like this movie, click the link in
the description below to watch it today.
I hope you have enjoyed this video. Hit the
like button and subscribe for more videos.
Have a great day ahead.